recipes/README.md, before:

# About the Recipes

The generated CSS is stored in the [./output](./output) directory.

## Relevant Scripts

```sh
./script/fetch-html ${book_name} # Stores result in `./data/`
./script/assemble-book ${book_name}    # Stores result in `./data/`
./script/bake-book ${book_name}      # Uses the results of `./script/fetch-html`
./script/mathify-book ${book_name}
./script/build-guide ${book_name}
```


# Guide Documentation

The source for the documentation is in CSS comments and is split into `common` and book-specific.

[An example config file with documentation](./books/_example/)

## Directory Organizational Map

- `./recipes/mixins/styleguide/*.snippet.xml` : The Raw HTML snippets for "common" elements in a Page
- `./recipes/mixins/styleguide/_all.scss`: The documentation for "common" elements in a Page
- `./recipes/books/${book_name}/styleguide/*.snippet.xml` : The Raw HTML snippets for book-specific collated pages and any other customizations
- `./recipes/books/${book_name}/book.scss`: Added CSS docs that are slurped in when generating the styleguide

## Book-Agnostic Documentation

The common documentation is in `./recipes/mixins/styleguide/_all.scss` only because phil didn't know of a better place to put them but wanted them "near" the common code. That directory also contains the Raw HTML snippets.

## Book-Specific Documentation

The book-specific documentation is done as comments in the `./recipes/books/${book_name}/book.scss` and `./recipes/books/${book_name}/_config.scss` files and the Raw HTML snippets are in `./books/${book_name}/styleguide/`.


# Variable Naming Conventions

There are 4 different types of variables used in the SASS files:

- starts with `Config_`: these are defined in the config file and are the **only** ones used as input to `_generator.scss`
- `$UPPER_CASE`: these are enums (SASS does not have native enums) and are used when you must select 1 of several options.
  - Example: `$AREA_NONE`, `$AREA_EOC`, `$AREA_EOB`
- `$_privateVar`: these are declared and used **within** the SCSS file
- `$PascalCase`: these are defined in one `_config.scss` file but are used in another `_config.scss` file


# Config Settings Hierarchy

The config settings are variables that start with `$Config_` and have the following structure:

- `$Config_ChapterCompositePages`: A list of [Pages](#page)
- `$Config_BookCompositePages`: A list of [Pages](#page)
- `$Config_SetTableCaption`: A [Caption](#caption)
- `$Config_SetFigureCaption`: A [Caption](#caption)
- `$Config_TargetLabels`: A list of [TargetLabels](#targetlabel)
- `$Config_Notes`: A list of [Notes](#note)
- `$Config_UnnumberedElements`: A list of [UnnumberedElements](#unnumberedelements)
- `$Config_PartType_*`
  - `$Config_PartType_Exercise`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Example`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Chapter`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Equation`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Solution`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Chapter_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Unit_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Appendix_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Section_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Table_CaptionContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Table_CaptionContentAp`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Figure_CaptionContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Figure_CaptionContentAp`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_Index_SymbolRegexp`: A regular expression (in a string)
  - `$Config_Index_NotSymbolRegexp`: A regular expression (in a string)
- `$Config_Coverage_*`
  - `$Config_Coverage_MayHaveSimlinks`: a boolean
  - `$Config_Coverage_MayHaveIframes`: a boolean
  - `$Config_Coverage_MayHaveMissingExercises`: a boolean
- `$Config_HACK_modifyAnyContainerTitleSelector`: a boolean
- `$Config_hasCompositeAppendixes`: a boolean (used for some TEA books)
- `$Config_hasCitation`: a boolean used for References.

## TitleContent

This is a map whose keys are the `className` of the element that will be created (ie `os-divider` or `os-number`) and the values are the css that will be used (ie `"|"` or `counter(exercise)`).

Example:

```scss
(
  os-title-label: "Example",
  os-divider: " ",
  os-number: counter(chapter) "." counter(example),
  os-divider: ":",
)
```


## Page

These are the end-of-chapter/book pages that are autogenerated.

A `Page` contains the following fields:
- `className`: the class name (and bucket) of the page
- `name`: The title of the new page (TODO rename?)
- `hasSolutions`: `true` when this item contains exercises that contain solutions
  - (TODO: why is this necessary?)
- `clusterBy`: `$CLUSTER_SECTION`, `$CLUSTER_CHAPTER`, or `$CLUSTER_NONE` when items on this page should be organized by Section/Chapter
  - A header is added which contains the section number and title
- `specialPageType`: (optional) There are also a couple of "special" pages: `$PAGE_INDEX` and `$PAGE_GLOSSARY`
which contain additional configuration fields.
- `childPages`: (optional) Some generated pages are just a container for other Pages. This contains the list of child Pages that need to be generated

Also, a set of styleguide comments occur above for each composite page.
Having it here makes it easy to remember to update the documentation and by having it above the `$Config_ChapterCompositePages` helps make this area
more readable (since it sort of looks like a table).


## Caption

This configures a Table or Figure caption.

A `Caption` contains the following fields:

- `captionType`: whether this is for a table or a figure
  - `$CAPTION_TABLE`
  - `$CAPTION_FIGURE`
- `defaultContainer`: An element that is created to contain the caption
- `hasCaption`: a boolean
- `hasTitle`: a boolean

## TargetLabel

Configure the labels of links. You will likely just extend the default set with a label for items specific to this book, like links to `Try It` notes.

(TODO: maybe this should be the default for links to Notes?)
**NOTE:** These selectors MUST match the counting selectors or be more specific
otherwise, the increment and the counter() call may fire in the wrong order.

A `TargetLabel` contains the following fields:

- `selector`: This a selector that matches the target of a link
- `labelText`: This is the text that will be inside the link
  - It can be a list or a map. If it is a map (used in i18n), the key corresponds to the `@cmlnle:case="..."` attribute. see #353


## Note

These are a Set of "Feature boxes" that are specific to the book.

A `Note` contains the following fields:
- `className`: the class name of the Note
- `moveSolutionTo`: Where the solution can be moved to.
  - `$AREA_NONE` keeps the solution in place
  - `$AREA_TRASH` discards the solution
  - `$AREA_EOC` moves the solutions to the end of a chapter
  - `$AREA_EOB` moves the solutions to the end of the book
- `labelText`: A simple string for the title. cannot be used with `titleContent`
- `titleContent`: what the autogenerated title should look like.
  - Most notes are just a string but some, like "Try It"
    are prefaced with which section they occur in
- `counterName`: (optional) used in conjunction with titleContent to specify the name of the counter


## UnnumberedExercise

Sometimes exercises (or equations) in notes should not be numbered. This shows which ones.

The name of this type is currently a little confusing but it is this because the need for unnumbered Exercises came before the need for unnumbered Equations.

TODO: It would be nice to move these into the note config but it seems like
the context is not always a note, and the child is not always an exercise/equation.
so the proper place to put this requires a bit more thought

It contains the following fields:

- `contextSelector`
- `childSelector`: (optional)


## CustomPart

This contains additional elements in the book (like an equation, exercises, solutions)
Each entry has a few common fields that can be set:
- `moveTo`: specifies where to move this element to
  - `$AREA_TRASH_HALF` (only for Config_PartType_Solution) will mark half of solutions for deletion before collation to the answer key
- `resetAt`: specifies when the counters should reset
  - `$RESET_SECTION` resets for each module
  - `$RESET_CHAPTER` resets for each chapter
  - `$RESET_COMPOSITE_PAGE` resets for each autogenerated page
- `titleContent`: The generated title for this element

- `outlineTitle`: (optional) Only used by `Chapter`
- `numberAt`: (optional) Only used by `Exercise`
- `solutionTitleContent`: (optional) Only used by `Example`
- `excludeNumberingInClassName`: (optional) Only used by `Equation`
- `hasLearningObjectives`: (optional) Only used by `Chapter Outline`

Commit message:

create variable for inlclude modify_groupChapOutlineIntroContent for pom

recipes/README.md, after:

# About the Recipes

The generated CSS is stored in the [./output](./output) directory.

## Relevant Scripts

```sh
./script/fetch-html ${book_name} # Stores result in `./data/`
./script/assemble-book ${book_name}    # Stores result in `./data/`
./script/bake-book ${book_name}      # Uses the results of `./script/fetch-html`
./script/mathify-book ${book_name}
./script/build-guide ${book_name}
```


# Guide Documentation

The source for the documentation is in CSS comments and is split into `common` and book-specific.

[An example config file with documentation](./books/_example/)

## Directory Organizational Map

- `./recipes/mixins/styleguide/*.snippet.xml` : The Raw HTML snippets for "common" elements in a Page
- `./recipes/mixins/styleguide/_all.scss`: The documentation for "common" elements in a Page
- `./recipes/books/${book_name}/styleguide/*.snippet.xml` : The Raw HTML snippets for book-specific collated pages and any other customizations
- `./recipes/books/${book_name}/book.scss`: Added CSS docs that are slurped in when generating the styleguide

## Book-Agnostic Documentation

The common documentation is in `./recipes/mixins/styleguide/_all.scss` only because phil didn't know of a better place to put them but wanted them "near" the common code. That directory also contains the Raw HTML snippets.

## Book-Specific Documentation

The book-specific documentation is done as comments in the `./recipes/books/${book_name}/book.scss` and `./recipes/books/${book_name}/_config.scss` files and the Raw HTML snippets are in `./books/${book_name}/styleguide/`.


# Variable Naming Conventions

There are 4 different types of variables used in the SASS files:

- starts with `Config_`: these are defined in the config file and are the **only** ones used as input to `_generator.scss`
- `$UPPER_CASE`: these are enums (SASS does not have native enums) and are used when you must select 1 of several options.
  - Example: `$AREA_NONE`, `$AREA_EOC`, `$AREA_EOB`
- `$_privateVar`: these are declared and used **within** the SCSS file
- `$PascalCase`: these are defined in one `_config.scss` file but are used in another `_config.scss` file


# Config Settings Hierarchy

The config settings are variables that start with `$Config_` and have the following structure:

- `$Config_ChapterCompositePages`: A list of [Pages](#page)
- `$Config_BookCompositePages`: A list of [Pages](#page)
- `$Config_SetTableCaption`: A [Caption](#caption)
- `$Config_SetFigureCaption`: A [Caption](#caption)
- `$Config_TargetLabels`: A list of [TargetLabels](#targetlabel)
- `$Config_Notes`: A list of [Notes](#note)
- `$Config_UnnumberedElements`: A list of [UnnumberedElements](#unnumberedelements)
- `$Config_PartType_*`
  - `$Config_PartType_Exercise`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Example`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Chapter`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Equation`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Solution`: A [CustomPart](#custompart)
  - `$Config_PartType_Chapter_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Unit_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Appendix_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Section_TitleContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Table_CaptionContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Table_CaptionContentAp`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Figure_CaptionContent`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_PartType_Figure_CaptionContentAp`: A [TitleContent](#titlecontent)
  - `$Config_Index_SymbolRegexp`: A regular expression (in a string)
  - `$Config_Index_NotSymbolRegexp`: A regular expression (in a string)
- `$Config_Coverage_*`
  - `$Config_Coverage_MayHaveSimlinks`: a boolean
  - `$Config_Coverage_MayHaveIframes`: a boolean
  - `$Config_Coverage_MayHaveMissingExercises`: a boolean
- `$Config_HACK_modifyAnyContainerTitleSelector`: a boolean
- `$Config_hasCompositeAppendixes`: a boolean (used for some TEA books)
- `$Config_hasCitation`: a boolean used for References.
- `$Config_hasGroupedIntroBody`: a boolean used for include mixin modify_groupChapOutlineIntroContent as a temporary solution for Principles of Managemet.
## TitleContent

This is a map whose keys are the `className` of the element that will be created (ie `os-divider` or `os-number`) and the values are the css that will be used (ie `"|"` or `counter(exercise)`).

Example:

```scss
(
  os-title-label: "Example",
  os-divider: " ",
  os-number: counter(chapter) "." counter(example),
  os-divider: ":",
)
```


## Page

These are the end-of-chapter/book pages that are autogenerated.

A `Page` contains the following fields:
- `className`: the class name (and bucket) of the page
- `name`: The title of the new page (TODO rename?)
- `hasSolutions`: `true` when this item contains exercises that contain solutions
  - (TODO: why is this necessary?)
- `clusterBy`: `$CLUSTER_SECTION`, `$CLUSTER_CHAPTER`, or `$CLUSTER_NONE` when items on this page should be organized by Section/Chapter
  - A header is added which contains the section number and title
- `specialPageType`: (optional) There are also a couple of "special" pages: `$PAGE_INDEX` and `$PAGE_GLOSSARY`
which contain additional configuration fields.
- `childPages`: (optional) Some generated pages are just a container for other Pages. This contains the list of child Pages that need to be generated

Also, a set of styleguide comments occur above for each composite page.
Having it here makes it easy to remember to update the documentation and by having it above the `$Config_ChapterCompositePages` helps make this area
more readable (since it sort of looks like a table).


## Caption

This configures a Table or Figure caption.

A `Caption` contains the following fields:

- `captionType`: whether this is for a table or a figure
  - `$CAPTION_TABLE`
  - `$CAPTION_FIGURE`
- `defaultContainer`: An element that is created to contain the caption
- `hasCaption`: a boolean
- `hasTitle`: a boolean

## TargetLabel

Configure the labels of links. You will likely just extend the default set with a label for items specific to this book, like links to `Try It` notes.

(TODO: maybe this should be the default for links to Notes?)
**NOTE:** These selectors MUST match the counting selectors or be more specific
otherwise, the increment and the counter() call may fire in the wrong order.

A `TargetLabel` contains the following fields:

- `selector`: This a selector that matches the target of a link
- `labelText`: This is the text that will be inside the link
  - It can be a list or a map. If it is a map (used in i18n), the key corresponds to the `@cmlnle:case="..."` attribute. see #353


## Note

These are a Set of "Feature boxes" that are specific to the book.

A `Note` contains the following fields:
- `className`: the class name of the Note
- `moveSolutionTo`: Where the solution can be moved to.
  - `$AREA_NONE` keeps the solution in place
  - `$AREA_TRASH` discards the solution
  - `$AREA_EOC` moves the solutions to the end of a chapter
  - `$AREA_EOB` moves the solutions to the end of the book
- `labelText`: A simple string for the title. cannot be used with `titleContent`
- `titleContent`: what the autogenerated title should look like.
  - Most notes are just a string but some, like "Try It"
    are prefaced with which section they occur in
- `counterName`: (optional) used in conjunction with titleContent to specify the name of the counter


## UnnumberedExercise

Sometimes exercises (or equations) in notes should not be numbered. This shows which ones.

The name of this type is currently a little confusing but it is this because the need for unnumbered Exercises came before the need for unnumbered Equations.

TODO: It would be nice to move these into the note config but it seems like
the context is not always a note, and the child is not always an exercise/equation.
so the proper place to put this requires a bit more thought

It contains the following fields:

- `contextSelector`
- `childSelector`: (optional)


## CustomPart

This contains additional elements in the book (like an equation, exercises, solutions)
Each entry has a few common fields that can be set:
- `moveTo`: specifies where to move this element to
  - `$AREA_TRASH_HALF` (only for Config_PartType_Solution) will mark half of solutions for deletion before collation to the answer key
- `resetAt`: specifies when the counters should reset
  - `$RESET_SECTION` resets for each module
  - `$RESET_CHAPTER` resets for each chapter
  - `$RESET_COMPOSITE_PAGE` resets for each autogenerated page
- `titleContent`: The generated title for this element

- `outlineTitle`: (optional) Only used by `Chapter`
- `numberAt`: (optional) Only used by `Exercise`
- `solutionTitleContent`: (optional) Only used by `Example`
- `excludeNumberingInClassName`: (optional) Only used by `Equation`
- `hasLearningObjectives`: (optional) Only used by `Chapter Outline`
