<div>
<div data-type="chapter">
  <div data-type="page">

    <!-- Markup starts here -->
    <div data-type="note" class="snap-lab">
      <div data-type="title">Title</div>

      <p>Body of the note</p>
    </div>


    <div class="note ost-assignable ost-reading-discard ost-assessed-feature snap-lab students-group safety-warning ost-tag-lo-k12phys-ch01-s02-lo02" data-has-label="true" data-label="Snap Lab" data-type="note" id="auto_2d6f9a59-6b43-4563-a7a7-c0b7ccb4a7d7@2_fs-id1164355841632"><div class="title" data-type="title" id="auto_2d6f9a59-6b43-4563-a7a7-c0b7ccb4a7d7@2_36466">Using Models and the Scientific Processes</div>
      <p id="auto_2d6f9a59-6b43-4563-a7a7-c0b7ccb4a7d7@2_fs-id1167066861558">Be sure to secure loose items before opening the window or door.</p>
    <p id="auto_2d6f9a59-6b43-4563-a7a7-c0b7ccb4a7d7@2_fs-id1164355862909">In this activity, you will learn about scientific models by making a model of how air flows through your classroom or a room in your house.</p>
    <ul class="materials" data-label="Materials" id="fs-id1164352262615">
    <li>One room with at least 1 window or door that can be opened</li>
    <li>Piece of single-ply tissue paper
        <ol data-number-style="arabic" id="fs-id1164355916693">
            <li>Work with a group of four, as directed by your teacher. Close all of the windows and doors in the room you are working in. Your teacher may assign you a specific window or door to study.</li>
            <li>Before opening any windows or doors, draw a to-scale diagram of your room. First, measure the length and width of your room using the tape measure. Then, transform the measurement using a scale that could fit on your paper, such as 1/2 inch = 1 foot or 5 centimeters = 1 meter. </li>
            <li>Your teacher will assign you a specific window or door to study air flow. On your diagram, add arrows showing your hypothesis (before opening any windows or doors) of how air will flow through the room when your assigned window or door is opened. Use pencil so that you can easily make changes to your diagram.</li>
            <li>On you diagram, mark 4 locations where you would like to test air flow in your room. To test for airflow, hold a strip of single ply tissue paper between the thumb and index finger. Note the direction that the paper moves by when exposed to the airflow. Then, for each location, predict which way the paper will move if your air flow diagram is correct.</li>
    <li>Now, each member of your group will stand in one of the four selected areas. Each member will test the airflow Agree upon an approximate height at which everyone will hold their papers.</li>
    <li>When you teacher tells you to, open your assigned window and/or door. Each person should note the direction that their paper points immediately after the window or door was opened. Record your results on your diagram.</li>
            <li>Did the airflow test data support or refute the hypothetical model of air flow shown in your diagram? Why or why not? Correct your model based on your experimental evidence.</li>
            <li>With your group, discuss how accurate your model is. What limitations did it have? Write down the limitations that your group agreed upon.</li>
        </ol>
    </li>
    </ul>

    <div class="exercise os-exercise grasp-check unnumbered" data-label="Grasp Check" data-type="exercise" id="auto_2d6f9a59-6b43-4563-a7a7-c0b7ccb4a7d7@2_fs-id1164355853970">
    <div class="problem" data-type="problem" id="auto_2d6f9a59-6b43-4563-a7a7-c0b7ccb4a7d7@2_fs-id1164355840608">
    <div>Your diagram is a model, based on experimental evidence, of how air flows through the room. Could you use your model to predict how air would flow through a new window or door placed in a different location in the classroom? Make a new diagram that predicts the room’s airflow with the addition of a new window or door. Add a short explanation that describes how.</div>
                <ol data-number-style="lower-alpha">
                        <li>Yes, you could use your model to predict air flow through a new window. The earlier experiment of air flow would help you model the system more accurately.</li>
                        <li>Yes, you could use your model to predict air flow through a new window. The earlier experiment of air flow is not useful for modeling the new system.</li>
                        <li>No, you cannot model a system to predict the air flow through a new window. The earlier experiment of air flow would help you model the system more accurately.</li>
                        <li>No, you cannot model a system to predict the air flow through a new window. The earlier experiment of air flow is not useful for modeling the new system.</li>
                </ol>
    </div>
    </div>
    </div>
    
  </div>
</div>
</div>
